>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So I left the previous
module with a real cliffhanger
around shared mutable state.
So if I refresh this,
you'll notice I select this.
As I start to type, this is being
updated or mutated in multiple places.
So JavaScript, pass by reference,
this is why you see this phenomena.
So this sets the stage for
a couple of things, or
at least highlights one of
the needs to think about how
we're structuring our components.
So it's probably a bad thing
that if I'm in this over here,
and it's updating over here, not good.
And so we need to find a way
to kinda break this out and
hedge against the shared mutable state.
Which leads to, I believe one of my
favorite topics when it comes to Angular.
And we started to see kinda the hints of
this in AngularJS with directives and
isolated scope, and
the API around that was kinda weird.
But with Angular, fortunately,
they settled on this idea that
everything should be a component,
and that we have inputs and outputs.
So remember when I talked
about property bindings,
that you can put data from
a component into a template?
Well, you can put data
into a component template,
that is from a parent to a child.
And that is essentially a custom
binding or a custom input.
And then if something happens in that
child, how do you know about it?
Via a custom output.
And so we're familiar with, we're binding
to a property that when it updates, so
does our template.
And if something happens in our template,
we're going
to communicate that back to our component,
so property binding, event binding.
So now the question is,
if we had custom property bindings and
custom event bindings,
what would that look like?
Because now you could create
a perimeter around a component, and
choose what goes in and what comes out.
So in our projects.component.html,
just by scrolling down here,
and this is approximately 70
lines of code, so not bad.
But it would be very hard for
somebody to just scroll through and
be like, I know what happened,
I know what's in here.
That, this is a bit heavy.
And so what we're going to do is, we're
going to break this into child components.
We're gonna show how to communicate
to those child components, and
in doing so,
solve the shared mutable state problem.
So opening up the console,
let's generate some components, ng g c.
And we're going to put this
in the projects folder, and
let's go with projects-list.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I feel like
maybe I might be missing something.
But let's do this as a dry run and
just see what happens.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, so far, so good.
So we'll do this again,
ng g c projects/projects-list.
We'll run this without the dry run flag.
And since we're here, ng g c
projects/project-details.
I don't think I need to dry run that.
Now let's look into our file
structure here, so projects.
And now within the projects
feature component, or
everything that is in the projects,
are now nesting.
Or we're saying project-details and
projects-list belongs under
this main projects feature.
And then if we look in here, you'll notice
that because we generated it with the CLI,
there's quite a bit of consistency here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If we
look at the project.module,
let me just zoom this back down.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You'll notice
that in the declarations is obviously
the ProjectsComponent.
But the CLI has went ahead and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Added
this to our module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And from here,
let's go into our projects.component.html.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let's just take this for a moment, and
I'm going to chop out the template.
We're going to go into projects-list.
And I'm just going to paste this in,
and I'm gonna leave this here for
just a moment.
I'm just gonna comment this out,
we'll be back.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's just
verify that everything is working,
h1, PROJECTS LIST IS WORKING.
Now what we'll do as well, why not,
let's go into our project-details.
And we'll go ahead and chop this out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
it looks like I missed that bottom, so
let me just re-select this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now in
the project-details template,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's just go ahead
and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Big h1,
cuz I think it's more bold,
PROJECT DETAILS WORKS!
All right, so when we refresh this,
obviously, nothing's here.
Let's go into our projects.component.
And we'll go, close that off,
app-project-details.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Sure, you can do
that when I'm doing a generic, but
you can't do it when I'm
actually in the template, okay?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is it?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You'd think it would
just pick that up on auto-complete, right?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It looks
like I'm going back to WebStorm.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
would anybody agree with me that this is
a little easier to parse what's happening?
Hey, it's a projects list, and
it's some project details.
So one of the upsides of components and
custom HTML
selectors is that allows you
to turn your HTML into a DSL.
And so this is, you don't really
hear people talk about this a lot.
But, so we've heard about Symantec Web.
But being able to create custom elements
that, for instance, stakeholders or
nontechnical people can look at and
say, well, that's a projects list,
and this is a project details thing.
This is really handy when not only are you
able to communicate to other developers,
but also there's a massive, I think,
return on investment when you can
communicate to non-stakeholders.
And they can look and
they can understand what's happening.